Tush! never tell me;
I take it much unkindly
That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse
As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
'Sblood, but you will not hear me:
If ever I did dream of such a matter,
Abhor me.
Thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate.
Despise me, if I do not.
Three great ones of the city,
In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,
Off-capp'd to him: and, by the faith of man,
I know my price, I am worth no worse a place:
But he; as loving his own pride and purposes,
Evades them, with a bombast circumstance
Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war;
And, in conclusion,
Nonsuits my mediators; for, 'Certes,' says he,
'I have already chosen my officer.'
And what was he?
Forsooth, a great arithmetician,
One Michael Cassio, a Florentine,
A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife;
That never set a squadron in the field,
Nor the division of a battle knows
More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric,
Wherein the toged consuls can propose
As masterly as he: mere prattle, without practise,
Is all his soldiership.
But he, sir, had the election:
And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof
At Rhodes, at Cyprus and on other grounds
Christian and heathen, must be be-lee'd and calm'd
By debitor and creditor: this counter-caster,
He, in good time, must his lieutenant be,
And I--God bless the mark!-- his Moorship's ancient.
By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
Why, there's no remedy; 'tis the curse of service,
Preferment goes by letter and affection,
And not by old gradation, where each second
Stood heir to the first.
Now, sir, be judge yourself,
Whether I in any just term am affined
To love the Moor.
I would not follow him then.
O, sir, content you;
I follow him to serve my turn upon him:
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
Cannot be truly follow'd.
You shall mark
Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave,
That, doting on his own obsequious bondage,
Wears out his time, much like his master's ass,
For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd:
Whip me such honest knaves.
Others there are
Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
And, throwing but shows of service on their lords,
Do well thrive by them and when they have lined their coats
Do themselves homage: these fellows have some soul;
And such a one do I profess myself.
For, sir, It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago:
In following him, I follow but myself;
Heaven is my judge, not for love or duty,
But seeming so, for my peculiar end:
For when my outward action doth demonstrate
The native act and figure of my heart
In compliment extern, 'tis not long after
I shall wear my heart upon my sleeve
For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.
What a full fortune does the thicklips owe
If he can carry't thus!
Call up her father,
Rouse him: make after him, poison his delight,
Proclaim him in the streets; incense her kinsmen,
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
Plague him with flies: though that his joy be joy,
Yet throw such changes of vexation on't,
As it may lose some colour.
Here is her father's house; I'll call aloud.
Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell
As when, by night and negligence, the fire
Is spied in populous cities.
What, ho, Brabantio!
Signior Brabantio, ho!
Awake!
What, ho, Brabantio!
Thieves!
Look to your house, your daughter and your bags!
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
What is the matter there?
Signior, is all your family within?
Are your doors lock'd?
Why, wherefore ask you this?
'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd; for shame, put on your gown;
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul;
Even now, now, very now, an old black ram
Is topping your white ewe.
Arise, arise;
Awake the snorting citizens with the bell,
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you:
Arise, I say.
What, have you lost your wits?
Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
Not I what are you?
My name is Roderigo.
The worser welcome:
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors:
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,
Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come
To start my quiet.
Sir, sir--
But thou must needs be sure
My spirit and my place have in them power
To make this bitter to thee.
Patience, good sir.
What tell'st thou me of robbing?
This is Venice;
My house is not a grange.
Most grave Brabantio,
In simple and pure soul I come to you.
'Zounds, sir,
you are one of those that will not serve God,
if the devil bid you.
Because we come to do you service
you think we are ruffians,
you'll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse;
you'll have your nephews neigh to you;
you'll have coursers for cousins
and gennets for germans.
What profane wretch art thou?
I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter
and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
You art a villain.
You are--
A senator.
This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.
Sir, I will answer any thing.
But, I beseech you,
If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,
As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
Transported, with no worse nor better guard
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,
To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor--
If this be known to you and your allowance,
We then have done you bold and saucy wrong;
But if you know not this, my manners tell me
We have your wrong rebuke.
Do not believe that, from the sense of all civility,
I thus would play and trifle with your reverence:
Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
I say again, hath made a gross revolt;
Tying her duty, beauty, wit and fortunes
In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
Of here and every where.
Straight satisfy yourself:
If she be in her chamber or your house,
Let loose on me the justice of the state
For thus deluding you.
Strike on the tinder, ho!
Farewell; for I must leave you:
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
To be produced-- as, if I stay, I shall--
Against the Moor: for, I do know, the state,
However this may gall him with some cheque,
Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars,
Which even now stand in act, that, for their souls,
Another of his fathom they have none,
To lead their business: in which regard,
Though I do hate him as I do hells-pains.
Yet, for necessity of present life,
I must show out a flag and sign of love,
Which is indeed but sign.
That you shall surely find him,
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search;
And there will I be with him.
So, farewell.
It is too true an evil: gone she is;
And what's to come of my despised time is nought but bitterness.
Now, Roderigo, where didst thou see her?
O unhappy girl!
With the Moor, say'st thou?
Who would be a father!
How didst thou know 'twas she?
O thou deceives me past thought!
What said she to you?
Get more tapers: Raise all my kindred.
Are they married, think you?
Truly, I think they are.
O heaven!
How got she out?
O treason of the blood!
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
By what you see them act.
Is there not charms
By which the property of youth and maidhood
May be abused?
Have you not read, Roderigo,
Of some such thing?
Yes, sir, I have indeed.
Call up my brother.
O, that you had had her!
Some one way, some another.
Do you know where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
I think I can discover him, if you please,
To get good guard and go along with me.
Pray you, lead me on.
At every house I'll call; I may command at most.
Get weapons, ho!
And raise some special officers of night.
On, good Roderigo: I'll deserve your pains.
Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
To do no contrived murder: I lack iniquity
Sometimes to do me service: nine or ten times
I had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs.
'Tis better as it is.
Nay, but he prated,
And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms
Against your honour
That, with the little godliness I have,
I did full hard forbear him.
But, I pray you, sir,
Are you fast married?
Be assured of this,
That the magnifico is much beloved,
And hath in his effect a voice potential
As double as the Duke's: he will divorce you;
Or put upon you what restraint and grievance
The law, with all his might to enforce it on,
Will give him cable.
Let him do his spite:
My services which I have done the signiory
Shall out-tongue his complaints.
'Tis yet to know,--
Which, when I know that boasting is an honour,
I shall promulgate-- I fetch my life and being
From men of royal siege, and my demerits
May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
As this that I have reach'd: for know, Iago,
But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
I would not my unhoused free condition
Put into circumscription and confine
For the sea's worth.
But, look! What lights come yond?
Those are the raised father and his friends:
You were best go in.
Not I I must be found:
My parts, my title and my perfect soul
Shall manifest me rightly.
Is it they?
By Janus, I think no.
The servants of the Duke, and my lieutenant.
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
What is the news?
The Duke does greet you, general,
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
Even on the instant.
What is the matter, think you?
Something from Cyprus as I may divine:
It is a business of some heat: the galleys
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
This very night at one another's heels,
And many of the consuls, raised and met,
Are at the Duke's already: you have been hotly call'd for;
When, not being at your lodging to be found,
The Senate hath sent about three several quests to search you out.
'Tis well I am found by you.
I will but spend a word here in the house,
And go with you.
Ancient, what makes he here?
Faith, he to-night hath boarded a land carack:
If it prove lawful prize, he's made for ever.
I do not understand.
He's married.
To who?
Marry, to-- Come, captain, will you go?
Have with you.
Here comes another troop to seek for you.
It is Brabantio.
General, be advised; He comes to bad intent.
Holla! Stand there!
Signior, it is the Moor.
Down with him, thief!
You, Roderigo!
Come, sir, I am for you.
Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
Good signior, you shall more command with years
Than with your weapons.
O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her;
For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
Whether a maid so tender, fair and happy,
So opposite to marriage that she shunned
The wealthy curled darlings of our nation,
Could ever have, to incur a general mock,
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
Of such a thing as thou, to fear, not to delight.
Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense
That thou hast practised on her with foul charms,
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
That weakens motion: I'll have't disputed on;
'Tis probable and palpable to thinking.
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
For an abuser of the world, a practiser
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
Lay hold upon him: if he do resist,
Subdue him at his peril.
Hold your hands,
Both you of my inclining, and the rest:
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
Without a prompter.
Where would you go that I would go with you
To answer this your charge?
To prison, till fit time
Of law and course of direct session
Call thee to answer.
What if I do obey?
How may the Duke be therewith satisfied,
Whose messengers are here about my side,
Upon some present business of the state
To bring me to him?
'Tis true, most worthy signior;
The Duke's in council and your noble self,
I am sure, is sent for.
How!
The Duke in council!
This time of the night!
Bring him away:
Mine's not an idle cause: the Duke himself,
Or any of my brothers of the state,
Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own;
For if such actions may have passage free,
Bond-slaves and pagans shall our statesmen be.
There is no composition in these news
That gives them credit.
Indeed, they are disproportion'd;
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
And mine, a hundred and forty.
But though they jump not on a just account--
As in these cases, where the aim reports,
'Tis oft with difference-- yet do they all confirm
A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
Nay, it is possible enough to judgment:
I do not so secure me in the error,
But the main article I do approve in fearful sense.
Now, what's the business?
The Ottomites, reverend and gracious,
Steering with due course, towards the isle of Rhodes.
Nay, in all confidence, he's not for Rhodes.
How say you by this change?
This cannot be,
By no assay of reason.
There enjointed them with an after fleet.
Ay, so I thought.
How many, as you guess?
Thirty sail: and now they do restem
Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance
Their purposes toward Cyprus.
Signior Montano,
Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
In his free duty recommends you thus,
And prays you to believe him.
'Tis certain, then, for Cyprus.
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
Against the general enemy Ottoman.
I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior;
We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.
So did I yours.
Good your grace, pardon me;
Neither my place nor aught I heard of business
Hath raised me from my bed, nor doth the general care
Take hold on me, for my particular grief
Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
That it engluts and swallows other sorrows
And yet is still itself.
Why, what's the matter?
My daughter!
O, my daughter!
Dead?
Ay, to me;
She is abused, stol'n from me, and corrupted
By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks;
For nature so preposterously to err,
Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
Sans witchcraft could not.
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding
Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself
And you of her, the bloody book of law
You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
After your own sense, yea, though our proper son
Stood in your action.
Humbly I thank your grace.
Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems,
Your special mandate for the state-affairs
Hath hither brought.
We are very sorry for't.
What, in your own part, can you say to this?
Nothing, but this is so.
Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors,
My very noble and approved good masters,
That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter,
It is most true; true, I have married her:
The very head and front of my offending
Hath this extent, no more.
Rude am I in my speech,
And little bless'd with the soft phrase of peace:
For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
Till now some nine moons wasted,
they have used their dearest action in the tented field,
And little of this great world can I speak,
More than pertains to feats of broils and battle,
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
In speaking for myself.
Yet, by your gracious patience,
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver
Of my whole course of love; what drugs, what charms,
What conjuration and what mighty magic,
For such proceeding I am charged withal,
I won his daughter.
A maiden never bold;
Of spirit so still and quiet, that her motion
Blush'd at herself; and she, in spite of nature,
Of years, of country, credit, every thing,
To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
It is a judgment maim'd and most imperfect
That will confess perfection so could err
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
To find out practises of cunning hell,
Why this should be.
I therefore vouch again
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
He wrought upon her.
To vouch this, is no proof,
Without more wider and more overt test
Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods
Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
I do beseech you,
Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
And let her speak of me before her father:
If you do find me foul in her report,
The trust, the office I do hold of you,
Not only take away, but let your sentence
Even fall upon my life.
Fetch Desdemona hither.
Ancient, conduct them: you best know the place.
And, till she come, as faithful as to heaven
I do confess the vices of my blood,
So justly to your grave ears I'll present
How I did thrive in this fair lady's love,
And she in mine.
Say it--ah--
Othello.
Her father loved me; oft invited me;
Still question'd me the story of my life,
From year to year, the battles, sieges, fortunes,
That I have passed.
I ran it through, even from my boyish days,
To the very moment that he bade me tell it;
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances,
Of moving accidents by flood and field
Of hair-breadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach,
Of being taken by the insolent foe
And sold to slavery, of my redemption thence
And portance in my travels' history:
Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven
It was my hint to speak-- such was the process;
And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
The Anthropophagi and men whose heads
Do grow beneath their shoulders.
This to hear
Would Desdemona seriously incline:
But still the house-affairs would draw her thence:
Which ever as she could with haste dispatch,
She'd come again, and with a greedy ear
Devour up my discourse: which I observing,
Took once a pliant hour, and found good means
To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart
That I would all my pilgrimage dilate,
Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
But not intentively: I did consent,
And often did beguile her of her tears,
When I did speak of some distressful stroke
That my youth suffer'd.
My story being done,
She gave me for my pains a world of sighs:
She swore, in faith, twas strange, 'twas passing strange,
'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful:
She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd
That heaven had made her such a man: she thank'd me,
And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her,
I should but teach him how to tell my story.
And that would woo her.
Upon this hint I spake:
She loved me for the dangersI had pass'd,
And I loved her that she did pity them.
This only is the witchcraft I have used:
Here comes the lady; let her witness it.
I think this tale would win my daughter too.
Good Brabantio,
Take up this mangled matter at the best:
Men do their broken weapons rather use
Than their bare hands.
I pray you, hear her speak:
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
Destruction on my head, if my bad blame
Light on the man!
Come hither, gentle mistress:
Do you perceive in all this noble company
Where most you owe obedience?
My noble father, I do perceive here a divided duty:
To you I am bound for life and education;
My life and education both do learn me
How to respect you; you are the lord of all my duty;
I am hitherto your daughter:
but here's my husband,
And so much duty as my mother show'd to you, preferring you before her father,
So much I challenge that I may profess
Due to the Moor my lord.
God be wi'!
I have done.
Please it your grace, on to the state-affairs:
I had rather to adopt a child than get it.
Come hither, Moor:
I here do give thee that with all my heart
Which, but thou hast already,
with all my heart I would keep from thee.
For your sake, jewel, I am glad at soul
I have no other child:
For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
To hang clogs on them.
I have done, my lord.
Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence,
Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers
Into your favour.
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
What cannot be preserved when fortune takes
Patience her injury a mockery makes.
The robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief;
He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.
So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;
We lose it not, so long as we can smile.
He bears the sentence well that nothing bears
But the free comfort which from thence he hears,
But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
Which, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow.
These sentences, to sugar, or to gall,
Being strong on both sides, are equivocal:
But words are words; I never yet did hear
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.
I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state.
The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for Cyprus.
Othello, the fortitude of the place is best known to you;
and though we have there a substitute
of most allowed sufficiency, yet opinion,
a sovereign mistress of effects,
throws a more safer voice on you:
you must therefore be content to slubber the gloss
of your new fortunes with this more stubborn
and boisterous expedition.
The tyrant custom, most grave senators,
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
My thrice-driven bed of down: I do agnise
A natural and prompt alacrity
I find in hardness, and would undertake
This present wars against the Ottomites.
Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
I crave fit disposition for my wife.
Due reference of place and exhibition,
With such accommodation and besort
As levels with her breeding.
If you please,
Be't at her father's.
I'll not have it so.
Nor I.
Nor I; I would not there reside,
To put my father in impatient thoughts
By being in his eye.
Most gracious Duke,
To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear;
And let me find a charter in your voice,
To assist my simpleness.
What would You, Desdemona?
That I did love the Moor to live with him,
My downright violence and storm of fortunes
May trumpet to the world: my heart's subdued
Even to the very quality of my lord:
I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
And to his honour and his valiant parts
Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
So that, dear lords, if I be left behind,
A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
The rites for why I love him are bereft me,
And I a heavy interim shall support
By his dear absence.
Let me go with him.
Let her have your voice.
Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not,
To please the palate of my appetite,
Nor to comply with heat-- the young affects
In me defunct-- and proper satisfaction.
But to be free and bounteous to her mind:
And heaven defend your good souls,
that you think I will your serious and great business scan
For she is with me: no, when light-wing'd toys
Of feather'd Cupid seal with wanton dullness
My speculative and officed instruments,
That my disports corrupt and taint my business,
Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
And all indign and base adversities
Make head against my estimation!
Be it as you shall privately determine, Either for her stay or going:
the affair cries haste and speed must answer it.
You must away to-night.
To-night, my lord?
This night.
With all my heart.
At nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
Othello, leave some officer behind,
And he shall our commission bring to you;
With such things else of quality and respect
As doth import you.
So please your grace, my ancient;
A man he is of honesty and trust:
To his conveyance I assign my wife,
With what else needful your good grace shall think
To be sent after me.
Let it be so.
Good night to every one.
And, noble signior,
If virtue no delightful beauty lack,
Your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
Adieu, brave Moor, use Desdemona well.
Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see:
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
My life upon her faith!
Honest Iago, My Desdemona must I leave to thee:
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her:
And bring them after in the best advantage.
Come, Desdemona:
I have but an hour
Of love, worldly matter and direction,
To spend with thee:
we must obey the time.
Iago.
What say'st thou, noble heart?
What will I do, thinkest thou?
Why, go to bed, and sleep.
I will incontinently drown myself.
Well, if thou dost, I shall never love thee after it.
Why, thou silly gentleman!
It is silliness to live when to live is torment;
and then have we a prescription to die
when death is our physician.
O villainous!
I have looked upon this world four times seven years;
and since I could distinguish
betwixt a benefit and an injury,
I never found man that knew how to love himself.
Ere would I say, I would drown myself
for the love of a guinea-hen,
I would change my humanity with a baboon.
What should I do?
I confess it is my shame to be so fond;
but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
Virtue!
A fig!
'Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus.
Our bodies are our gardens, to the which
our wills are gardeners:
so that if we will plant nettles, or sow lettuce,
set hyssop and weed up thyme,
supply it with one gender of herbs,
or distract it with many, either to have it sterile with idleness,
or manured with industry, why, the power and corrigible authority of this
lies in our wills.
If the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason
to poise another of sensuality,
the blood and baseness of our natures
would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions:
but we have reason to cool our raging motions,
our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts,
whereof I take this that you call love to be a sect or scion.
It cannot be.
It is merely a lust of the blood
and a permission of the will.
Come, be a man.
Drown thyself!
Drown cats, blind puppies.
I have professed me thy friend and I confess me
knit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness;
I could never better stead thee than now.
Put money in thy purse; follow thou the wars;
defeat thy favour with an usurped beard;
I say, put money in thy purse.
It cannot be long that Desdemona
shall continue her love unto the Moor--
put money in thy purse-- nor he his to her:
it was a violent commencement in her,
and thou shalt see an answerable sequestration--
put but money in thy purse.
These Moors are changeable in their wills:
fill thy purse with money--
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts,
shall be to him shortly as acerb as coloquintida.
She must change for youth: when she is sated with his body,
she will find the error of her choice:
therefore put money in thy purse.
If thou wilt needs damn thyself,
do it in a more delicate way than drowning.
Make all the money thou canst:
if sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian
and a supersubtle Venetian be not too hard for my wits
and all the tribe of hell, thou shalt enjoy her;
therefore make money.
A pox on drowning thyself!
It is clean out of the way: seek thou rather to be hanged
in compassing thy joy than be drowned and go without her.
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on the issue?
Thou art sure of me-- go, make money--
I have told thee often, and I re-tell thee again
and again, I hate the Moor:
my cause is hearted; thine has no less reason.
Let us be conjunctive in our revenge against him:
if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost thyself a pleasure,
and me a sport.
There are many events in the womb of time
which will be delivered.
Traverse!
Go, provide thy money.
We'll have more of this to-morrow.
Adieu.
Where shall we meet i' the morning?
At my lodging.
I'll be with thee betimes.
Go to; farewell.
Do you hear, Roderigo?
What say you?
No more of drowning, do you hear?
I am changed.
Go to, fare well.
Provide thy money.
I'll sell all my land.
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse:
For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane,
If I would time expend with such a snipe.
But for my sport and profit.
I hate the Moor:
And it is thought abroad, that 'twixt my sheets
He has done my office: I know not if't be true;
Yet I, for mere suspicion of that kind,
Will do as if for surety.
He holds me well;
The better shall my purpose work on him.
Cassio's a proper man: let me see now:
To get his place and to plume up my will
In the double knavery--
How, how?
Let's see--
After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
That he's too familiar with his wife.
He hath a person and smooth dispose To be suspected,
framed to make women false.
The Moor of free and open nature,
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
And will be as tenderly be led by the nose
As asses are.
I have't.
It is engender'd.
Hell and night
Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.